alright so now that we can add contacts
let's so go ahead and add the code to
edit a contact so the first thing we
need to do is to add and edit item to
our contact menu I'm going to look at
the contact dialogue to do that and
let's add an entry in a menu so I said
contact dialogue but of course menu is
in main .fxml so we want
to add it here
as another menu item below the add
we're going to come along here and put
our items again and we're going to put
...
now what we're going to do is reuse the
UI that we use for adding a contact now
we want to change the header text of the
dialogue we also want to fill the field
with existing values of a contact that we are
editing when the user presses ok we
don't want to add a new contact we want
to actually update the values in the
existing contact instance but first we
need to know which contact the user
wants to edit so we want to know which
contact the user has selected in the
table then if nothing is selected show a
message box that tells the user to
select the item that they want to edit
that's what we're going to do so we'll
go back to our controller class and
will actually add this function this method
...
alright so the method is going to be
public void
...
alright so we get the selected item from
the table if it's null it means
that nothing selected we're going to
show this alert that was just coded up
and then return now alerts can have a
header text or can have header text just
like dialogues but we don't need it and
that's why I've set it to null so let's
run this and try it out and
obviously to check this code we need to
run it without actually selecting an
item from the table and we actually
got an error here so let's check out what I've
done wrong with ok so i don't think it's
anything to do with the code that we
change...
...and we go back
to our controller that looks
ok to me just looking at data again our
contacts xml and that's the problem
you remember that i didn't add anything
for notes we haven't got any validation
and we're assuming that all the fields
will actually have some information
that's so i'm suspecting I changes this
some notes by editing the xml directly
then go back and run this again we
should find that it works so that was my bad
for actually not putting any data
in there we go so it's actually working
again
alright so let's do what I was
going to originally do and going click
on contacts and click on edit to see
with that dialog box pops up that we
just created the alert I should say no
contact selected please select the
content you want to edit just
confirming right then select one and
click on edit again we don't get the
pop-up this time because we've actually
got a selected contact
alright so that's working well alright
so we've got the code obviously we go
back to our controller in the case of
the selected contact being null
in other words if there wasn't a
selected contact so let us now write the
code in a situation where there was a
valid one selected so I'm gonna start
down here and what we're going to do is
create that dialogue so that we can pop
up the dialogue containing the fields and
enable the user to edit so start...
...
and
interesting enough intellij is smart enough
figure out that we've got some
duplicated code in this file so we could
have made a method or done this and some
other way but I'll leave that for now we
know that this code is duplicated from the
code that we added up here we work on
the show add contact but leave that
for now for the simplicity as we go through
alright so again we just add
the rest of the code so...
...
....i'm going
to touch on the changes from the add
method and most of these occur after
we've added the buttons to the dialogue so
first i'm setting the title of the dialog
to add contact on line 74 the second
rather than getting a reference to the
contact controller when the user presses
ok i'm actually getting up front because
we want the contact controller to
populate the dialogue values with the
existing value for the contact to do so
i'm calling the edit contact method
which we're going to be adding to the
contact controller in a minute and third
and last if the user presses ok we call
the update contact method from the
contact controller again and we'll be
adding that method shortly as well
alright so let's go back to the contact
control and add those methods so the
first one
...
....
...so you can
see what we're doing here just purely
populating the fields on screen in our
dialogue with the contents from our
content contact object get last name...
...
...now the update to
contact we need to do the opposite
we need to get the data in the
dialogue and actually populate the
contact objects so...
...
....now once again we would
normally be doing some verification in a
real world application but I'm keeping
things really simple so
go back to our controller again the
main controller those errors disappeared
and the other thing to note here is that
saving the contacts to the file after the
Edit just as we're doing when we add a
new record
alright so let's actually try running
this just to see whether it works so i'm
going to run this so let's start first
to check the Edit if nothing selected
that's correct we get an alert if we
choose something like this fourth record
contacts edit got the field showing their
lets actually just try click ok
without making any changes to make sure
that the same values are present
and just be really sure we stop the
app running again even though we're not
suspecting there any problems a good
thing to check still got the original
values there
alright so let's actually try editing it
will change last name from smith and
will change phone number...
...click on ok we got Zane Smith new
phone number a few notes just to be
sure
also change the first entries well make
it Bob instead of zane and you can see
the form is being updated and we'll just
run it again and we still got the right
values coming back when the applications
reloaded now remember that our quick and
dirty save load code expects all values
to be present
you saw what happened when i
accidentally forgot to put something in
the notes field for a particular
record we got it to crash at startup so you
may not notice that when you doing that
when you're adding a new record until you
get to the stage of reloading the data
so if that's the case just gonna come
over here to the contacts . xml edit and
put some values in there and obviously
in a real-world application you wouldn't
allow that to happen you would actually
you want to make sure that you've got
the ability to enter null values or have some
sort of verification validation to avoid
that
alright I'm going to finish the video
here now we're just about done in the
next video what we're going to do is go
ahead and add the code to delete a
contact and then there's a few little
minor things will do in terms of
resizing and so forth for the table i'll see
you in the next video